Landing is one of the most
critical phases during a flight.
It is the second thing a pilot learns in
training after basic flight control and
recovery techniques.
Touchdown is the first phase.
An aircraft has to dump all this kinetic
energy that keeps the aircraft flying.
It's a fine maneuver that should be
done right, not too soft, not too hard.
Landing also is one of
the most dangerous phases and
most aircraft accidents take place
either during the take off or landing.
Instrumental guidance systems are,
therefore,
a great advantage to the pilots.
In this project,
we focus on runway detection by
using image filtering techniques.
Our runway detection algorithm
is based on video frames.
This means that we have a camera
mounted on the aircraft
which is recording the approach.
The frames captured by the camera is then
forwarded to image processing algorithms.
To easily spot the visual
characteristic of the runway,
we will filter out other details
than the edges in the frame.
This makes the image simpler to process
because now the picture only contains
the most basic properties for
determining a square runway in
an otherwise diverse landscape.
Okay, so
runway detection already exists but
now we want to build the next generation
of landing system based on IoT.
Let's consider the aircraft
being a complex sensor system
capable of recording and
sending filtered video frames.
These frames can now be sent
to a Cloud server on ground,
in which high performance algorithms
such as deep learning can be applied on
the video frames to optimize the landing.
This type of heavy processing can not
be executed on site because of lacking
processing power and it must therefore
be forwarded to a Cloud server.
Of course, with data transfer,
we expose a risk to leak
confidential information that could
endanger the safety of the aircraft.
Check out Norse, my website,
that visualizes the realtime attempts
to break IT security worldwise.
The link must, therefore,
be secured before data transfer can begin.
Let's recap the project.
Your task is to build an autonomous
landing system or aircraft.
The system should detect
a wrong way from a video frame.
This is done by recording the landing
with a camera mounted on the aircraft,
the image is filtered by an edge detection
algorithm and the filtered image is
encrypted and sent to a Cloud server for
further processing over a secure link.
This course is built on three previous
courses of this specialization.
From the course embedded
operating system and
hardware, you will apply your skills for
planning the embedded hardware platform.
Planning the performance required for
the processing, the cost of building such
system and
the energy such a system would consume.
You will need to program a lot in this
course and most of the programming
will be based on the course
development of realtime systems.
The realtime processing of system must
match the system requirements and
correct scheduling must be ensured.
Finally, you will need to utilize your
skills from course web connectivity and
security in embedded systems to
establish the web connectivity and
ensure the secure transfer
of data to the Cloud server.
My name is and
I am a teacher in computer science at
the University of Turku in Finland.
You can check out our website to learn
more about the University of Turku.